---
id: nix-2.8.0
title: Nix 2.8.0 released
date: 2022-04-21T18:00:00.000Z
category: announcements
---

We're pleased to announce the availability of Nix 2.8.0. It will be available from [NixOS - Getting Nix / NixOS](https://nixos.org/download).

Here are the release notes:

- New experimental command: `nix fmt`, which applies a formatter defined by the `formatter.<system>` flake output to the Nix expressions in a flake.
- Various Nix commands can now read expressions from standard input using `--file -`.
- New experimental builtin function `builtins.fetchClosure` that copies a closure from a binary cache at evaluation time and rewrites it to content-addressed form (if it isn’t already). Like `builtins.storePath`, this allows importing pre-built store paths; the difference is that it doesn’t require the user to configure binary caches and trusted public keys.

  This function is only available if you enable the experimental feature `fetch-closure`.

- New experimental feature: _impure derivations_. These are derivations that can produce a different result every time they’re built. Here is an example:

  stdenv.mkDerivation {
  name = "impure";
  \_\_impure = true; # marks this derivation as impure
  buildCommand = "date > $out";
  }

  Running nix build twice on this expression will build the derivation twice, producing two different content-addressed store paths. Like fixed-output derivations, impure derivations have access to the network. Only fixed-output derivations and impure derivations can depend on an impure derivation.

- `nix store make-content-addressable` has been renamed to nix store `make-content-addressed`.
- The `nixosModule` flake output attribute has been renamed consistent with the `.default` renames in Nix 2.7.
  - `nixosModule` → `nixosModules.default`

  As before, the old output will continue to work, but `nix flake check` will issue a warning about it.

- `nix run` is now stricter in what it accepts: members of the `apps` flake output are now required to be apps (as defined in [the manual](https://nixos.org/manual/nix/stable/command-ref/new-cli/nix3-run.html#apps)), and members of `packages` or `legacyPackages` must be derivations (not apps).

The [next release](https://github.com/NixOS/nix/milestone/17) is scheduled for 2022-05-30.

Thank you to all the contributors!
