---
id: nix-2.7.0
title: Nix 2.7.0 released
date: 2022-03-14T18:00:00.000Z
category: announcements
---

We're pleased to announce the availability of Nix 2.7.0. It will be available from [NixOS - Getting Nix / NixOS](https://nixos.org/download).

Here are the release notes:

- Nix will now make some helpful suggestions when you mistype something on the command line. For instance, if you type nix build `nixpkgs#thunderbrd`, it will suggest `thunderbird`.
- A number of “default” flake output attributes have been renamed. These are:
  - `defaultPackage.<system>` → `packages.<system>.default`
  - `defaultApps.<system>` → `apps.<system>.default`
  - `defaultTemplate` → `templates.default`
  - `defaultBundler.<system>` → `bundlers.<system>.default`
  - `overlay` → `overlays.default`
  - `devShell.<system>` → `devShells.<system>.default`

  The old flake output attributes still work, but `nix flake check` will warn about them.

- Breaking API change: `nix bundle` now supports bundlers of the form `bundler.<system>.<name>= derivation: another-derivation;`. This supports additional functionality to inspect evaluation information during bundling. A new repository 73 has various bundlers implemented.
- `nix store ping` now reports the version of the remote Nix daemon.
- `nix flake {init,new}` now display information about which files have been created.
- Templates can now define a `welcomeText` attribute, which is printed out by `nix flake {init,new} --template <template>`.

The next release 149 is scheduled for . The [next release](https://github.com/NixOS/nix/milestone/16) is scheduled for 2022-04-18.

Thank you to all the contributors!
