---
title: Summer of Nix 2022 Announcement!
date: 2022-04-04
---
Summer of Nix 2022 will happen **from July 18th to September 30th**!

[Applications are open here from now until May 15th!](https://cryptpad.fr/form/#/2/form/view/HyAQLTXDtHy0JNGvRIwWXa6Swmxb31LuWsOoPRcmD-8/).

Following the excitement of Summer of Nix 2021 (more in [last year’s
report](https://summer.nixos.org/assets/report-2021.pdf), I am happy to
announce that the European Commission, NLNet and the NixOS Foundation have
granted enough budget to organize another community event this year. After some
brainstorming sessions I am excited to share how we (an organization committee
of ~8 people now) would like to organize this event.

Summer of Nix is **a paid summer program** where you can **learn, meet, and
work** with the Nix community. It targets experienced Nixers and Nix newcomers
alike to come together and work on a range of different topics. At the same
time, there will be talks about Nix and presentations by Nix-using companies
with the goal of fostering a strong sense of community and pushing the
ecosystem forward together.

What’s new this year is that we offer …

 * a **communication stream** to write quality documentation, deployment
   stories, tutorials, and produce video content and podcast episodes;
 * an **ecosystem stream** to work directly on Nix tooling that improves the
   overall packaging and package user experience;
 * a **packaging stream** to package new free and open source software either
   within nixpkgs or as independent flakes.

All streams focus on improving Nix support for the **free and open source
(FOSS) ecosystem** from different angles, as last year with emphasis on the
packages sponsored by the European Commission via the NGI initiative and
NLNet.

You can participate in Summer of Nix in several ways:

 * **As a participant** you will work full time on various projects together
   with other participants within the 3 work streams for about 8 weeks (with
   some flexibility, e.g. to take vacation). This is the main role in Summer of
   Nix and great for those who work in a team to share and improve their Nix
   skills, meet nice people while contributing to the community.
 * **As a team coordinator** you will lead a small team, arrange communication
   and mentoring, and guide technical discussions and decisions. You will also
   be involved in the overall organization of the program with other
   coordinators. Technical work in this role includes reviewing PRs and
   answering technical questions. Hours can vary, but on average the time
   commitment is about 12 hours a week. Experienced Nix tinkerers with a social
   knack are encouraged to apply for this role. If you’re interested in Nix and
   also enjoy team organization, this role is for you!
 * **As a tech wiz** you will pair program with participants, answer their
   questions, review their PRs, and show them how to get along with Nix. This
   is a great way to be involved if you are an experienced Nixer and enjoy
   helping others in a flexible way.
 * **As a project lead** you offer a project within the three work streams. You
   would work together with participants on this project, and provide them with
   guidance and technical expertise. This is great for anyone who is looking
   for support on their own Nix project. If you have an idea, please apply, but
   understand that projects have to fall within the three work streams and we
   will need to evaluate whether they can fit within the scope of the European
   Commission’s grant.

The compensation depends a bit on each role but will roughly be oriented on
Google’s Summer of Code stipend for the participant roles.

Please write to summer@nixos.org if you have questions. In addition to this, we
will also have **a separate sponsor track** for companies who want to connect
with the community in this program this year. But more about this later…
